[CHIMING]
[INSTRUMENTAL ETHEREAL MUSIC]
>> My name is Erich von Daniken.
I am Swiss.
I'm the author of "Chariots of
the Gods," and 40 other books.
All these books have
the same subject.
Were extraterrestrials here
thousands of years ago?
I was educated in Switzerland
as a strict Catholic,
in a boarding school
led by Jesuits.
Of course, I was in
deep believer in God.
I still am a believer in
God, although, I do not
know what God really is.
But when I was a boy,
17-years-old, God, for me,
had to have some qualities.
For example, God
makes no mistake.
God does not need a vehicle in
which to move around from point
A to point B. God is all over.
Now, in this boarding
school, we have
to translate parts of the
Bible from Latin into Greek,
and from Greek to German.
Then I learned
that in the Bible,
the God, which is
described there,
he uses a vehicle
to move around.
He descends on the holy
mountain with smoke,
and fire, and trembling,
and loud noise, and so on,
and he made some mistakes.
So all of a sudden, I had doubts
in my own Catholic education,
and I simply wanted to find
out if other communities
in antiquity have
similar traditions
than we have it
from the Christian
and the Jewish tradition.
That was the beginning of
"Chariots of the Gods."
A long time ago, over 50 years.
In the meantime, I'm
an 84-year-old man.
Of course, I'm married since
58 years with the same wife.
I have two grandchildren,
and I am happy to be alive,
and to work as I do it.
[JAZZ MUSIC]
Well, as every child,
I was not different,
except I was always a musician.
I was always trying to
play some instruments.
Now, as a small boy, the drums.
And later, growing
up in school, the
trumpet, and of
course, the piano.
Of course, even as a boy,
I was a member of a band.
A jazz band at that time.
If I would not have become
a best selling author,
my career would have gone
in the direction of music.
For my family, we came
from the hotel business.
My grandmother had a
hotel with the restaurant.
So I was growing up in the
hotel and restaurant business,
and of course, I made
first my high school,
the boarding school
in the French speaking
part of Switzerland.
So six years in that
boarding school.
In the boarding school,
we had, for example,
translated part of the Bible.
It's the second book in Moses.
Before the lord descends
on the holy mountain,
he gives order to Moses that
Moses should create a gate
around the holy mountain,
otherwise the Israelites
would be destroyed.
So Moses constructs a
gate, and then the Lord
descends with smoke, and fire,
and rumbling, and loud noise.
So I said to myself, my
god, the real Almighty
God of all religion, that
the spirit of the universe
does not need to construct,
first, a gate for safety.
Does not come down with smoke,
and fire, and loud noise.
So I had my doubts in
that boarding school,
and of course, I was talking
to this to my professors.
And they were not afraid.
They said Erich, if you
think in this direction,
you should learn much more
about the old scriptures
before you discuss this.
And they told me, Erich, go to
father whatever the name was,
and ask for a Book of Enoch.
I asked for a Book of Enoch.
I read the Book of Enoch.
I was completely confused.
You know, Enoch in
the Bible, you simply
hear that he was
the first human who
disappeared in a fiery
chariot from this planet,
and they say he was the seventh
patriarch before the Great
Flood.
Now, roughly 180 years
ago, a British explorer
came to Ethiopia,
and in Ethiopia, he
came into an old library.
And in this old library, he
found the book with the title
The Book of Enoch.
Slowly, he translated
the Book of Enoch
from the Ethiopian
language into English.
Later, from English into German.
And I was a boy, I had
the German translation
before my eyes, and I
was completely shocked
because Enoch speaks
in the first person.
An eyewitness.
Not in the third person.
He says he was 12 years old.
The whole community of the
village wanted to go to sleep.
Then they hear the
noise in the sky.
They saw a light in the sky.
All of a sudden,
the light fell down
to the earth, and all the
inhabitants of the village
runaway.
They were afraid, except Enoch.
He says I stood there
in astonishment.
Then, all of a sudden, two
beings came close to me
in glittering clothes.
And he says, clearly,
these two beings
did not look like humans.
They did not breath like humans.
They breathed differently.
I never saw beings
like this on Earth.
He is afraid.
Enoch, finally, he fells
on this ground too.
Then, somebody picks him up,
and says to him, "Son of humans,
don't be afraid.
We won't hurt you."
And then follows
the whole story.
An incredible story
in the Book of Enoch.
So I was completely
fascinated of Enoch.
And later, of course, I learned
that we find similar stories
in the Maya texts.
The same thing happen
in the old Indian text.
Always one person is taken out.
Also they learned the
language of the strangers.
Enoch receives a writing device.
Then they dictate in books--
books about science, astronomy,
calendar, engineering,
and all this.
Now, the critics cannot
say, this is ridiculous.
How should extraterrestrials
speak Enoch's language?
In our time, our
ethnologists, they
were visiting some tribe
from the upper Amazon River
or maybe on the
Upper Nile River.
It was never a
problem of learning
the language of the natives
within a short period.
After five, six months,
our ethnologists
understood the
languages of the tribe.
These extraterrestrials,
they behaved themselves
like ethnologists would do.
They studied their group
before visiting them.
So I'm not shocked at all
if the stranger speaks
to Enoch in Enoch's language.
And the stranger says to
Enoch, don't be afraid.
And he says, if you wish,
you can come with us.
We teach you.
Enoch says yes, I
wish to be teached.
He receives an aura.
Something like the same
spacesuit which they had on.
Then they go up.
He describes over the Earth,
I saw the round Earth,
and I saw gigantic things.
He compares them with
brilliance, with diamonds,
and so on.
Doors open, doors close.
They go in there.
He passes through
strange gardens
with vegetables
and flowers, which
he had never seen on Earth.
Then he comes into a
big room, and there
in the center of the
room, there was a throne.
And on this throne, the
highest was sitting.
When the three came in there,
two of the extraterrestrials
and Enoch, the
highest stands up,
walks a few steps toward
Enoch, shakes his hand,
and says to him, welcome
here at our place.
Now, what I just told you is
part of the Book of Enoch,
but not the way I told it to
you because some 160 years ago,
when Enoch was translated first
from the Ethiopian language
into English, all these
brilliant professors
at that time, they knew
nothing about space travel,
nothing about space ships,
nothing about flying.
So they believed we have
to see all these things
in a religious context.
So the translation is
different to what I say.
I am a deep believer in
God, and all these things--
what is handed down--
is not belonging to God.
God is omnipotent.
Imagine for a second that
my idea would be correct.
So we were visited by
beings from outer space.
The next question is where
did these visitors come from?
What is their evolution?
Have they been influenced
by another solar system?
OK, where did the
other come from?
And so on.
You can play it back
again for thousands,
hundreds of thousands of years.
Finally, you arrive
to a starting point,
where in every respect with
region, you have to confess
and to say, here is God.
Here is the beginning.
Here is the spirit.
So you never lose God.
I never lost my God.
I am one of these figures
who still pray every evening,
but my prayer really
changed completely.
Educated as a
Christian, of course,
I was praying to the holy mother
Mary or to Jesus and the cross.
In the meantime, I prayed
to what I call God.
All true, I have no
definition of God.
I read quite some intelligent
books about what is God.
None of these scientists was
able to make a definition
of God, but our little spirit--
our little
understanding says there
is a beginning of the universe.
There must be creation, and
this is what we call God.
I call it today, the
spirit of the universe.
First, I read as many books
as possible, concerning
the beginning of the religions.
So how did the Sumerian
religion begin?
How did the Egyptian
How did the Maya religion begin?
And then being critical, and
saying what's going on here?
Give you an example every
culture has its calendar,
and every calendar
has a starting point.
We're Christian.
We have a Christian calendar,
and the starting point
was the birth of Jesus Christ.
So the starting point is
always very, very important
for the certain culture
because you just don't
start the calender for nothing.
The same thing happened
in Central America.
There's the calendar
of the Maya,
and the Mayan calendar starts
on August 11th 3114 BC.
So asking myself,
what was the reason?
Why I have they started their
Maya calendar on August 11,
3114 BC?
What was so important?
When the Spanish conqueror
arrived in Central America,
they found thousands
and thousands
of books written by the Maya.
They destroyed them all, except
three books which have left.
Well, now just imagine in
our society, if for a war
or whatever, every Bible
would be destroyed,
but the priest and the
believers in Christianity,
they know the context of
the Bible in their brain.
So they start to
rewrite the Bible.
The same thing happened
in Central America.
All the books were destroyed.
The priests re-wrote
their old knowledge,
and so the Chilam
Balam book happened,
and in the Chilam Balam
book, one of the priests
explains why have
our forefathers
started the calendar of the
Maya on August 11, 3114 BC.
Because that was the
day when the Gods
descended from the firmament.
That was the starting point.
So the next step was archeology.
First, you look in
archaeological textbooks.
You see what discovery were
made, and then you go there.
I was in every
archaeological place
where I have written about,
and not just like a tourist.
I was sometimes there
for months or weeks.
Now, in Central America,
they found a secret groove.
A tomb with a stone plate.
Quite a block, weighing 10
pounds, and on this stone
block, an engraving.
Incredible engraving.
You see something like a frame,
and in the center of the frame,
a young man is sitting,
bending forward, almost
like a motor racing cyclist.
You clearly see he has an
oxygen mask on his nose.
He uses his two hands to
manipulate some control.
You see the upper hand.
His fingers.
The lower hand with the
four fingers in the back.
He's winding up something.
He's sitting on a chair,
and outside the frame,
you see a linking flame.
I was completely fascinated
because the stone was chiseled
unknown thousands of years ago.
So I was there for
at least 12 days,
talking with
archaeologists, and finally,
bring it into my books.
So this is one of
the optical proofs
to say we were
influenced by God.
The difference between
my point of view,
and that point of view
of an archaeologist
is the archaeologist does not
take mythology for serious.
They think mythology
is all nonsense,
and I take these mythologies
and these religious books
for honest.
I say these writers, some
thousands of years ago,
they did not tell us
science fiction story.
You know, when the first man
started to learn writing,
cuneiform learning.
So only a few people
were able to write.
They did not write
science fiction.
The high priest
would come looking.
What are you doing here?
That's not true.
Many mythologies are just fairy
tales, but not all of them,
and mythologies you
can never take precise.
It's not a scientific story,
but it's the common knowledge
of the people.
What they knew.
There was always a core
of truth in mythology,
and you can easily separate
which one is the truths,
and which one is
just an allegory.
Let me explain you this.
Enoch, again, he's
in the spaceship.
He learned the language.
Now, one of the teachers
says to Enoch, human,
look out of the window.
Do you see this little
light out there?
You humans, you
call it the moon,
but the moon has
no light by itself.
The moon receives his
light from the sun,
and then the extraterrestrials
explains to Enoch
why is the moon sometimes
full in light, bright, shiny.
Only why it appears.
So this is
astronomical knowledge.
This is not fiction.
And then he explains
Enoch our calendar.
That around our
planet, around our sun,
different planets are turning.
The third planet is
our planet, Earth.
And they explained your
planet surrounds your sun
in 365 days, plus leap hours.
Not leap days, leap hours.
So this is scientific knowledge.
So all this is not fantasy.
In every human, we have a
living beast in our brain,
and this beast is
called curiosity.
Whatever is intelligent
has curiosity,
and curiosity is never-ending.
You'll always have
new questions.
As soon as you think
you have an answer,
the next question comes up.
So because of my knowledge
of the old writings,
my brain is able to
connect these things.
[JAZZ MUSIC]
When I wrote "Chariots
of the Gods,"
I was the managing director
of a five star hotel
in Switzerland [INAUDIBLE].
And of course, since
my student time,
I always studied the old
religions and mythology.
I knew a lot about it.
As a hotel manager, I
discussed with my guests.
In the evening, we would sit
there together on the bar table
with a glass of wine,
and one of my guests--
he was the chief editor of a
big German weekly newspaper,
"Die Zeit."
So he was the chief editor.
He says hey, you
should write a book.
I said listen, I have a book.
I have a manuscript, but I
cannot find the publisher.
The next morning,
I just hear him
on the phone saying to this
strange person, listen, Irving,
I'm sitting here in Switzerland.
There is a young hotel
manager, and he has just
written an incredible book.
You should talk to him.
So I received the publisher,
which I don't know,
on the phone, and
he asked me can you
come to Dusseldorf in
Germany within the next week?
So I went to Dusseldorf.
I presented the manuscript.
He read only 10 pages
of the manuscript.
I was sitting like a boy in
the chair, and after 10 pages,
the man said young
man, if you are right,
OK, we published the book,
and then it all started.
[MACHINE WHIRRING]
Of course, I was crushed
down practically by everyone,
especially the
scientific community,
especially the archaeologists,
and the theologians who say
come on, you cannot
look at this.
Von Daniken is writing about the
prophet Ezekiel in the Bible,
and he said Ezekiel was in a
spaceship, but we theologians,
we know he had a vision.
Even the astronomers came.
The astrophysicists
and said OK, it
might be that some
extraterrestrial life exists
somewhere out there, but
we have no proof for it.
Even if it would exist,
extraterrestrial life,
these beings would
never look like us
because evolution
on another planet
goes completely different.
So if extraterrestrials
exist, they
would maybe look like,
I don't know, big beings
with tentacles and whatever.
And even if they do
exist, extraterrestrials
and terrestrials will
never meet together.
So all these
critical points, they
were reasonable at that time.
Seen from their standing
point, that was OK.
In the meantime, it
has completely changed.
[MYSTERIOUS MUSIC]
I am an 84-year-old man, and
I live in a wonderful family.
We all respect each other.
None of my family says
he's an idiot, he's a fool.
They all help me with my fight.
I remember my daughter
Cornelia, once I had a speech.
I always have somebody who
helps me with the speech
because somebody has to do
the slide projector and all
these things, and
somebody was sick.
I asked my 14-year-old daughter,
please help me this evening.
All that you have to do is to
manage the slide projector.
She did it.
She came to my speech.
And after my speech,
she gave me a hug.
She said daddy,
this is incredible.
Finally, I understand it.
So I'm quite happy.
Why I am so enthusiastic?
Why do I continue
with all this thing?
Why?
Because the Gods, the
so-called Gods, will return.
And we, humanity, we should
be prepared for this event.
We should not be afraid of them.
We should not be shocked
when they return,
and we should
learn that we all--
if we are black people,
white people, yellow people.
If we are Catholics,
or Muslim, or whatever.
We all are the
intelligent human race
on this little blue planet.
So we all make
together humanity.
Stop with all this
rubbish of racism.
All of this rubbish only my
religion is the only one.
As soon as we get into contact
with extraterrestrials,
we have to speak with
them as humanity.
[EPIC MUSIC PLAYING]
[TYPING]
According to my information,
we are already, in our days,
under observation.
I know the biggest part of
these UFO cases are nonsense.
Are just the irritations,
or imaginations,
or non-scientific,
but some of the cases
are very, very serious.
We should listen
to these people.
We should listen to
them what happened.
So we are under observation.
By the way, I myself
never saw a UFO.
I'm unhappy.
I would like a lot to see a UFO.
So these extraterrestrials,
if they are here,
they have a much more
advanced technology than we.
It would be no problem
for them to show up
in a football stadium.
The whole humanity would see,
hey, what's happening here?
There's a UFO.
Over 10,000 people
flying over the stadium.
They could do it.
Why do they not do it?
Because they know
how we function.
How we react.
If we are not prepared
for this event,
we would be completely shocked.
So we have to be prepared.
We have to lose our fear.
We have to understand they
are not here to kill us--
to destroy us.
They could have done
this for eternity.
They are here to help us.
To help us in what?
To help us in technology.
Today, we have a lot of
problems on our planet
with pollution, overpopulation,
world warming, climate,
all these things.
The extraterrestrials will
not solve our problem.
They had their own evolution,
and they had all these problems
at their home too, maybe
some 10,000 years ago.
They tell us what we must
do to solve these problems,
but we have to do it ourselves.
As every educated
person, I know we
are in the middle
of a climate change.
That's for sure.
No one can deny this,
but now whole humanity
is fighting against the
climate change by avoiding CO2.
But the problem is,
in antiquity, 7,000,
8,000 years ago, we had
already climate change.
This can be proven absolutely
clear because the glaciers went
back and the stones.
But some 8,000 years, there were
no humanity with industries,
with cars, who produced CO2.
So maybe we are on the wrong
track fighting against CO2,
hoping that this would
change our climate.
So we can ask the
extraterrestrials.
We have a problem,
climate change.
What can we do
against to help it?
Maybe they teach
us it's not CO2.
It's some seem different.
You have to fight against it.
40 years from now, I
was invited by NASA.
It was a secret speech.
Both parties agreed that
none would go to public.
All the high professors
in rocketry were there.
In that speech, I
shortly also speak
about the prophet Ezekiel
in the Old Testament.
Later, we were all sitting
together at dinner,
and then the chief
of the construction
of NASA at that time,
Mr. Josef Blumrich,
came to me at the table.
Said Erich, you are the
first person who brings me
to this prophet Ezekiel.
I never read of this.
I will read this
in the next weeks.
He did it.
He read Ezekiel, and
he became astonished,
and started to take
Ezekiel seriously.
Then two other NASA scientists
came to him-- to Blumrich,
and said what are you doing
with the Bible on your desk?
He said, look, there's a
prophet calling Ezekiel.
He describes a vehicle
which came down.
We can reconstruct,
recalculate, what this vehicle
must have looked like.
Slowly, piece by piece, they
took every phrase of Ezekiel
seriously, not just
a few examples,
and they reconstructed
the spaceship of Ezekiel.
Mr. Jo Blumrich, Chief of the
NASA Constructing Department,
came out with the book.
The English title was "The
Spaceship of Ezekiel."
In the foreword, he
confesses he started his work
against Erich von Daniken.
He wanted to disprove
this idea of Ezekiel,
but he found on the
contrary, was true,
and he was very happy with his.
Still today, there
are a lot of skeptics
who think whatever Erich von
Daniken writes is garbage,
is nonsense, and I love the
discussions with skeptics
because they lose anyhow
in all discussion.
And whenever I come
together with skeptics
who think I'm an
idiot, I ask them,
which book-- which of
your titles have you read.
They say none.
They read nothing.
They simply knew in
advance it's all nonsense.
Of course, I learned
from the skeptics too.
In many cases, the critics
were correct, and I had to say
oh, come on, this point
of view makes more sense
than my point of view, which
is normally the discussion.
But roughly, the
extraterrestrials
were here some
thousands of years ago.
Our ancestors at that time could
not understand what it was.
They called it the gods.
Roughly, this story I
can prove by indication.
There are no gods, in reality.
So it's all a
misunderstanding, but they
believed these are the gods.
That's why the
so-called gods entered
into the big religions,
the mythologies, legends,
et cetera.
It's all a misunderstanding.
Well, my life has
changed because I'm
an enthusiastic man, and
I'm a man full of curiosity.
I always have new questions.
I still have no idea where did
these extraterrestrials come
from, which solar system, how
far away, with what technology?
What was finally the purpose?
Why have they chosen to come to
our planet or our solar system?
There are still hundreds of
open questions, which I've tried
to come closer and closer.
I've found brilliant
indications to support
that extraterrestrials
were here,
but I never found
a conclusive proof.
Until today, I am
missing an object.
An object which is not
from this planet, which
I could present proudly with
the scientific community.
This object is not
from our planet.
So help me out.
What is the situation?
But I know such objects do
exist because they were here,
and we have descriptions,
for example.
In the Bible, we
have descriptions
of the Ark of the Covenant,
and the Ark of the Covenant
was not a human object.
It was an
extraterrestrial object.
So we know that some
of these objects
exist, but we have
never found them.
In many other fields,
I know nothing.
I am just a student, happy
to learn from the others.
But in my field, I
know quite a lot.
So I can debate, and
that makes me happy.
New paradigms, new
way of thinking,
a new way of curiosity, a
new way of question mark.
That's what I'm
bringing forward,
and I hope that
society continues.
In the meantime,
I hope some of us
have learned we are not alone.
There are other
societies out there.
We have learned to become
a little more humble.
We have learned that
space travel is possible,
even from star to star.
We have learned that it is
possible to change the cell--
the DNA in the cell.
So it is possible
to create something.
I am sure we are the
product of evolution.
We cannot deny evolution,
but there was always,
in the past thousands of years,
somebody who did something
in our evolution.
Extraterrestrials,
from time to time,
made a little changing
in our evolution.
So in the future, our genetics
are brilliant personalities.
They will find out
this in the genes.
Soon as we notice, we all
are part of evolution,
but not only.
We are a little part of
extraterrestrials too.
That's why we understand them.
That's why we will understand
each other very well.
So my latest book
in English language
is a sequel of
"Chariots of the Gods."
I continue with
I say what happened
in the past 50 years?
What happened and
where do we stand now?
And it comes close to it.
We are under observation.
We have some UFO case which
we should take for serious.
That's the content
of my new book.
Be prepared.
We are under observation,
and sooner or later, they
will show up again.
The title is "The
Gods Never Left Us."